# Jared A. Dunbar

![me](me.jpg)

## History

I grew up in Harwinton, CT, where I graduated Lewis S. Mills High School, in
Burlington, CT. In my childhood, my interests were electronics, robotics,
computers, and also mechanical projects - I spent a lot of time working with
Legos and making little projects here and there. While in 7th through 9th grade,
I participated in the Trinity College RoboWaiter contest, located on the
Hartford, CT campus, with friends. The first time I competed, I was able to beat
over 20 international college-level teams, with a simple Lego NXT robotic
set (and a lot of extra Legos and other parts). That was my first major
accomplishment. From there, I went on into FRC robotics, and competed for 3
years - the first two being a programmer, and the last year being the head
programmer for the team - I wrote LabVIEW code to run the robot code.

For work experience, I worked for 3 springs at White Flower Farm, giving me
countless hours of retail and customer service experience, as well as a respect
for hard, labor-intensive work.

## Now

After High School, I moved on to Clarkson University, where I almost immediately
joined the Clarkson Open Source Institute. There, I learned from many of the
older students about how to operate servers and other equipment. Over the past
two years where I have been involved in running the server room, I have made my
way up the chain and become one of two System Administrators for the lab - I
operate our 10G Juniper switchgear, an array of cheaper managed switches, and
also run many of our infrastructure-critical hosts, such as our DHCP, DNS,
firewall, central authentication servers, as well as all of our virtual machine
hosts. I also co-maintain the open source Mirror project, and helped with the
initial configuration as well as ongoing upgrades and maintenance.

Besides COSI, I have many other experiences at Clarkson University. I have
worked at the Clarkson University Department of Information Technology Help
Desk, where I have worked for one and a half years. There, I continued to learn
about working one on one with people, and discovering clever solutions to
difficult problems, debugging hardware, software, and University infrastructure.
I also have an ongoing project where I am setting up a SLURM cluster to run
heavy computational tasks for Professor Chee-Keong Tan in the Electrical and
Computer Engineering Department - which requires working with older hardware,
and industrial software with strict software requirements. In addition to that,
I am also helping Clarkson University's TV station, WCKN, move to newer hardware
that is 4K capable from 720p.

## Future Plans

My future plans are to learn more about computer infrastructure systems and be
able to easily set up computer systems in an automated manner, as well as
being fluent in Juniper's Junos and Cisco's IOS. I also want to learn more about
fiber optic systems, and be able to operate any portion of a standard
datacenter.

## Skill Set

My skills are intentionally varied. I have dabbled in many different subjects of
computer science, computer engineering, and infrastructure operations.

I am skilled at writing Python, Java, and LabVIEW, have worked with C/C++, Bash
scripting HTML and CSS, and have minor experience with JavaScript and Perl.

I use Arch Linux as a daily operating system, however I am also skilled at
configuring Debian based operating systems (such as Ubuntu), and I have worked
with the RHEL family of operating systems (CentOS and Fedora

I have worked with Windows XP, 7, and 10, and have experience with how to
configure the system, edit group policy, and make registry edits, as well as
user administration, commercial software installation and licensing, as well as
other tasks related to running a efficient Windows system.

I have touched the IOS system (COSI has some very old Cisco 7000's), and I have
some experience with configuring Juniper switchgear.

I have other skills and experiences as well, particularly with computer hardware
and other types of hands-on hardware.

## Volunteer Activities

I participate in many activities that benefit the community in varying ways. I
am well known in the Clarkson community as well as in Harwinton for being very
accessible and helpful in many projects. I have spent hundreds of hours of my
time helping others over the years, be it working at church events in town, and
helping out with tasks at many Lion's Club events in town (multiple per year).

More recently at Clarkson, I'm known to help people with computer problems as
well as other projects - I am the team leader for the CS Outreach program at
Clarkson University, which organizes events through Project Challenge, as well
as with support from Google IgniteCS, to teach students in the local area. I
also help run the open houses for the Computer Science department, speaking on
behalf of the CS labs at major events such as Freshman Orientation.

## Helping spread knowledge

I help to spread my knowledge to others. I spend a lot of time in online
chatrooms as well as via email or phone, helping people discover ways to improve
their computer skills, as well as being helpful in general. In the CS Labs, I
try my best to teach everyone who is interested in hearing what I have to say,
giving workshops on weekends and talks at meetings.
